[HZ-845 HZ-860] Improve dynamic configuration documentation (#359)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/configuration/pages/dynamic-config-persistence.adoc

= Dynamic Configuration Persistence
:description: You can configure members to keep dynamic configuration changes in memory or persist them in a YAML or XML configuration file.

{description}

NOTE: Please make sure to give write permissions to the configuration file.

== Enabling Dynamic Configuration Persistence

To enable dynamic configuration persistence adding the following configuration is enough:

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
```xml
<hazelcast>
  <dynamic-configuration>
    <persistence-enabled>true</persistence-enabled>
</hazelcast>
```
--
YAML::
+
--
```yml
hazelcast:
  dynamic-configuration:
    persistence-enabled: true
```
--
====

By default, the xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc[declarative configuration file] used to persist dynamic changes. This also means that you need to use hazelcast with a configuration file.

> 

Author: > Do you use <<snippets, configuration snippets>>?

What this item mean? Why it is this asked?

> 

Reviewer: because if a user uses snippets, they may want to add a change to a snippet instead of the root config file, in which case the user can configure `peristence-file`

== Backups

You can configure number of backups and where they will be stored. By default, 5 backups will be stored in the `dynamic-configuration-backups` folder, which is created at the node startup directory. You can configure both number of the backups and the folder which these backups will be held.

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
```xml
<hazelcast>
  <dynamic-configuration>
    <persistence-enabled>true</persistence-enabled>
    <backup-dir>/data/dynamic/backups</backup-dir>
    <backup-count>7</backup-count>
  </dynamic-configuration>
</hazelcast>
```
--
YAML::
+
--
```yml
hazelcast:
  dynamic-configuration:
    persistence-enabled: true
    backup-dir: /data/dynamic/backups
    backup-count: 7
```
--
====

> Note that backups will be named with timestamps which they are created. So the name format will be `yyyy-MM-dd--HH-mm-ss-SSS.backup` and one example would be `2022-01-31--13-23-44-699.backup`. If directory contains other files with `.backup` extension or if time is shifted during running the node then order of backups can be corrupted.

Author: Where could be this information be available? This is requested in https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-enterprise/issues/4595

== Persistence File

> If you want to see your dynamic configuration changes in a different file, you can also configure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, changes are persisted to the configuration file that was used to configure the member at startup. If you want to persist your dynamic configuration changes to a different file, configure the `persistence-file` option.

NOTE: The persistence file must exist before you start the member and it must be xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc#composing-declarative-configuration[imported] into the root configuration file.
```

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
```xml
<hazelcast>
  <dynamic-configuration>
    <persistence-enabled>true</persistence-enabled>
    <persistence-file>/data/dynamic/persistence.yaml</persistence-file>
  </dynamic-configuration>
</hazelcast>
```
--
YAML::
+
--
```yml
hazelcast:
  dynamic-configuration:
    persistence-enabled: true
    persistence-file: /data/dynamic/persistence.yaml
```
--
====

> Note that `persistence-file` must be created and must be xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc#composing-declarative-configuration[imported] to the root declarative configuration by the user. You still need to have a xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc[declarative configuration file].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is important and should come before the example.

.Configuration options for dynamic configuration
[cols="20%m,80%a"]
|===
| Option|Description

|dynamic-configuration
| Root configuration

| persistence-enabled
| Whether changes made in dynamic configuration are persisted to a configuration file. Default: false.

| persistence-file
| Relative or absolute path to a configuration file. Changes made in dynamic configuration will be persisted to this file. This file must either be the configuration file that is used to start the member, or it must be imported into that file. See xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc#composing-declarative-configuration[Importing Configuration Snippets into Files] Default: Path to the configuration file that was used to start the Hazelcast member.

| backup-dir
| Relative or absolute path to a directory in which to store backups of the persistence file. Each new backup will be created inside this directory. If this option is not given, a new directory will be created in the node startup directory.                            

| backup-count
| Number of backups of the configuration file to keep. To disable backups, set this option to 0. Default: 5.
|===

> == Example Full Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Full Example
```

> = Configuring Dynamic Configuration

Author: minor: Since we change this back to old name, please feel free to rename it. Like `configuring-dynamic-configuration.adoc` for example.

If you configure the <<snippets, `persistence-file`>> option, that file is backed up instead of the <<glossary, root configuration file>>.

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
  <dynamic-configuration>
    <persistence-enabled>true</persistence-enabled>
    <backup-dir>/data/dynamic/backups</backup-dir>
    <backup-count>7</backup-count>
  </dynamic-configuration>
</hazelcast>
----
--
YAML::
+
--
[source,yml]
----
hazelcast:
  dynamic-configuration:
    persistence-enabled: true
    backup-dir: /data/dynamic/backups
    backup-count: 7
----
--
====

[[snippets]]
== Changing the Persistence File

To persist dynamic configuration changes to a file other than the <<glossary, root configuration file>>, set the path to an XML or YAML configuration file in the `persistence-file` option.

The `persistence-file` must be created and must be xref:configuring-declaratively.adoc#composing-declarative-configuration[imported] into the root configuration file.

If you start multiple members on a single device, each member should have a unique persistence file.

> If you use the Java API to set the `Config.configFile` property, Hazelcast persists changes to that file.

Author: This isn't a property, this is a method. `Config.setConfigurationFile()`. Basically we want user to set `configurationFile` field of the `Config` object.

> If you use the Java API to set the `Config.configFile` property, Hazelcast persists changes to that file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Java API to set the `Config.configurationFile` field, such as with the `Config.setConfigurationFile()` method, Hazelcast persists changes to that file.
```
